+++
title = "Community"
template = "learning.html"

[extra]
sidebar_sections = ["contact_us", "need_help"]

main_title = """Work or learn with a group of peers in a casual setting"""

main_subtitle = """Network and co-work with others. Data Science doesn't need to be lonely"""

events_title = "Upcoming Events"
events_image = "/images/learning_events.png"
+++

## Ways to Connect

We offer multiple ways of engaging with others in the Fred Hutch Data Science community:

- [Co-working](#co-working)
- [Learning Communities](#learning-communities)
- [Datathons](#datathons)
- [Data Deep Dives](#data-deep-dives)

## Learning Community Values

At the Data Science Lab, we are strong believers in the power of social learning. Our values are:

1. Research doesn’t need to be lonely. We learn and work best with our peers.
2. The ways that data impacts our work at Fred Hutch are wide and varied. There is no one right way, but there are best practices we can aspire to.
3. Sharing knowledge in public is important. Together, our collective knowledge can help us all improve how we work. Everyone knows something that could help someone else in our community.
4. Asking questions is a way of taking care of our peers. They often may have the same questions, but might be reluctant to ask them.

## Community Participation Guidelines

All DaSL Community events adhere to the [DaSL Community Participation Guidelines](@/participation-guidelines.md). This is to ensure a safe space for all.

## Co-working

One of our core values is that **Data Science doesn't need to be lonely**. We are often working in isolation, as [lone data scientists](https://openscapes.org/blog/2025-01-07-solving-the-lonely-data-scientist-problem/). 

What is the solution? **Co-working**.

Co-working is working in the same space with other people, whether online or in-person. Interesting conversations and collaborations can happen when you are working with others. For example, we ran a single-cell learning community because of the interest generated by co-working participants. 

During the quarter, we will offer co-working on Mondays, usually around 12 - 1 PM. Feel free to drop in and work with us! For more info, please [sign up for the newsletter](@/connect.md). 

## Learning Communities

Learning communities are informal groups of people doing projects, classwork, or anything else to master the skills they need for their work. Community members can work on their own, share what they’re doing, get constructive feedback, ask for advice, or whatever else they need.

Learning communities are focused on specific topics and are hosted by members of OCDO. They are discussion oriented and are for learners at all levels. They are usually launched after a topic specific Data Deep Dive.

Past Learning Communities have focused on learning single cell analysis and data management. 

If you are interested, [sign up for the newsletter](@/connect.md).

## Datathons

A Datathon is a day in which folks get together to explore a dataset together, practice what we have learned in data science creatively, and share it with each other! Past Datathons have looked at spatial data, health survey data, and climate data. 

They usually are at the end of the quarter on a Friday from 11am-2pm PT. Lunch will be provided.

## Data Deep Dives

**Data Deep Dives** are learning sessions designed specifically for the Fred Hutch community to spotlight data science tools, methods and best practices from experts in our **Data Science & Software (DS&S)** and **Data Governance (DG)** teams.

Each session focuses on **practical, Hutch-relevant applications or processes** — helping staff learn directly from in-house experts and apply these approaches in their own work. To stay sustainable and impactful, Deep Dives are **repeated quarterly**, allowing content to evolve, reach new audiences, and build lasting value over time.

Unlike traditional seminars, Deep Dives emphasize **doing over listening** through:

- Hands-on examples
- Interactive discussions
- Shared problem-solving

For Data Science and Software Data Deep Dives will be followed up by a Topic Specific Learning Community Session.

Data Deep Dives will start late Winter Quarter - [keep subscribed to our Newsletter for more info](@/connect.md). 